here at Halligan we manage 120 acres of
pasture providing a suitable field for
habitat as a key factor as this is the
main food item for our resident barn
house this is their story
with the arrival of spring elegance
birds mammals and insects jump into
action making estate and gardens i've
activity within this small corrugated
barn
elegance barn owls are pairing up and
investigating the newly installed box
you
tomako nakka nakka nakka nakka nakka
nakka nakka nakka nakka nakka nakka
nakka nakka nakka it is now the end of
March and the mail has become the
arduous it rather comical task of
meeting before the mail is allowed to
mate you must first deliver pray to
prove he is a worthy successful provider
mama mama mama mama
the female now begins the laborious task
of incubating the eggs during this time
she is entirely dependent on the male
bringing her an adequate amount of food
the female has now been incubating the
eggs for around 32 days and the first
chick has hatched the two remaining eggs
will hatch asynchronously this means
that each egg will hatch two days after
the previous due to the females laying
an incubating pattern now that all three
chicks have hatched both parents will
have the tough task of providing copious
amounts of food the main source of food
for barn owls is small mammals
particularly field voles
although this year they have developed a
taste for the exotic
the chicks are now spending the majority
of their time on their own and as they
grow so do their appetites
you
it is now been seven weeks since the
first egg hatched and the chicks have
moved into the entrance corridor eagerly
awaiting prey deliveries it's not long
until the outlets begin to explore the
outside of their nests box
a few weeks have passed and all three
outlets have successively fledged only
returning to consume prey that they have
managed to catch themselves
due to our land management techniques we
have provided a fantastic habitat for
barn owls to thrive in doing so we hope
to continue conserving the population
here at Iligan